+++
Title = "🏖️ Review: Pipì nel Mare (Tyrrhenian Sea)"
Dates = 2023-08-11
Downsync = "/it/posts/Recensione-Pipi-Nel-Mar-Tirreno.html"
Aliases = [
  "/Posts/2023-08-11-Recensione-Pipi-Nel-Mar-Tirreno.html",
]
Featured_Image = "@/Media/Misc/craiyon_211338_anime_girl_in_the_ocean_looking_at_the_sunset__half_body_rem.webp"
Description = "An action usually considered irrelevant can, in a special moment, turn out to be magical and impossible to keep to yourself: you have to write a review."
+++

{{< noticeAutomaticTranslation it >}}



<!-- Autogenerated by ListedDownsync.js. Do not edit (unless also set "% Downsync = False") - it would be overwritten. -->

<p>With summer now at its peak, in yet another extremely hot August, it is practically obligatory that all the <strong>traditions of the season</strong> are honored, this year too.</p>

<p>Where do you go on holiday this time too? But at the seaside, of course. In your opinion, who has the most authority in this regard: all those unknown people who every time, almost acting by inertia, punctually choose the mountain again, hoping that in some way this umpteenth time could be the good and fun one... or the 'very Italian poet poet, Gabriele D'Annunzio, who in particular seaside locations experienced summer months so profound and memorable that he felt the irrepressible need to write about an entire collection of lyrics?</p>

<blockquote>
<p><em>I have spent these days in profound quiet, lying in a boat in the sun. You don't know these places: they are divine. [...] I think about the time when I will have to get back on the train, with unspeakable regret. I would like to stay here, and sing. I have such a vehement desire to sing that the verses arise spontaneously from my soul like the foam of the waves. In recent days, at the bottom of my boat, I have composed some Lauds that truly seem to be children of the waters and rays, all penetrated by air and saltiness. I feel that in a month or two I could compose the entire volume in one go. [...] If you could imagine the beauties of this marina!</em><br>
(<a href="https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alcyone#Genesi_dell'opera" rel="noopener nofollow" target="_blank">Letter from D'Annunzio to Fratelli Treves Editori, 7 July 1899< /a>)</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Although, like many, I am also convinced of the fact that the sea - understood as being chained in the same single seaside resort chosen for the holiday on duty - is tiring for a long time, in some cases I too am able to feel in a particularly engaging is that naturalist essence that D'Annunzio was able to transcribe with extreme difficulty into beautiful words, despite the fact that my holidays are definitely a little more flat than his.</p>

<p>Perhaps during my short holiday in Calabria I didn't have the opportunity to take spectacular walks in the pine forest, or to enjoy a walk on the beach as nature dictates - without the August crowd and the sensory overload generated by it - and not even staying for hours in the absolute peace of some glimpse to rest, I still couldn't give up that one <strong>moment of immersion</strong> that I'm truly allowed.</p>

<p>After several of those days in which I reluctantly had to decry the sea water as unsatisfactory - too cold, too rough to even stay on the shore without rolling away, overall uninviting atmosphere - finally today between late afternoon and first evening the cards on the table are the right ones, which allow me to make that most desired move: <strong>peeing in the sea</strong>.</p>

<p>At the beginning, my idea was to just stay on the shore, distracted and with my head full of other thoughts. However, in a few minutes the environment proved to be extremely enveloping for the senses, and my thoughts slowly aligned themselves with the frequency of the waves. Following this <strong>new calm</strong> and welcoming rhythm, then, I push myself a little further into that vast blue, arriving to get wet up to my waist, there in the Tyrrhenian Sea.</p>

<p>By now I feel good in the water, and in the moments that continually follow one another <strong>I begin to forget</strong> all the shapes, colors, mental constructions. The sky shaded with a warm blue, a fresh color stained by the warm shades of the sun which is now about to set, thus putting an end to this last day of holiday. I do not perceive all those no longer necessary elements, works and thoughts of the modern world, totally out of place in such a divine context, and I delete those other few people very distant from me.</p>

<p>With the blink of an eye, I therefore go back hundreds of thousands of years, if not tens of millions, to when all the broth of life was being prepared in the enormous oceanic pot, inside which today we can no longer live but from which we still feel an ancestral call.</p>

<p>It is at this point that, after my mind and my skin have totally merged with the blue body, the rest of my flesh is completed in this temporary hybrid entity, which at the same time belongs to me and of which I am not Nothing. <strong>That stimulus</strong>, as old as the scenario that has naturally come together by now, is now the only definable complex thought that goes back and forth between my nervous system and the urinary system. Thus we build a need that has the appearance of a longing desire, but which we begin to realize on our own, as if it were almost a <strong>gift of fate</strong>, without any notable effort on my part.< /p>

<p>This. This is the single only moment in today's world when we can appreciate the simplicity of such a gesture. Deriving pure satisfaction from something that we consider obvious, and to which we generally don't give a shred of attention: all the other times we pee we always have something on our mind, and we always see the act as small as yet another chore to do constantly, not like a little well-deserved <strong>moment of break</strong> a few times a day. I am personally guilty of this.</p>

<p>In this long moment in the <strong>Calabrian sea</strong>, quite deep even at a distance not excessively far from the shore, the only even possible distraction is the <strong>infinite panorama</strong> between the horizon and it costs. No moment is ignored, but rather each of those countless moments increases the awareness of pleasure, while waiting to finish the job; but to be able to crown the anticipated satisfaction, not to run away from the cup as usual.</p>

<p>The most pleasant aspect of the work is undoubtedly <strong>the warmth</strong> of the liquid now released, which induces <strong>relaxation</strong> and gives us confirmation that yes, we are doing the thing more beautiful. The swimsuit is always in place, never moved a millimetre, but you can't feel it at all, it doesn't offer the slightest resistance to the mixing of the only two fluids in play. It's the highlight of everything, the pinnacle of panism.</p>

<p>In the end, everything ends, but that's good. We, extremely limited beings, could not even appreciate an experience of this type in this situation if it had a different duration. At this point, with <strong>extreme calm</strong>, without starting to fill my head with useless thoughts again, I start to <strong>get out of the water</strong>, which has become certain. I enjoyed this special moment, and that's what counts.</p>

<p>Final rating: <strong>10/10</strong>. An experience that in its pleasant essentiality is truly inimitable. <strong>I highly recommend it</strong> to everyone, and I would certainly do it again at the next available opportunity.</p>

<p>Before concluding, a <strong>little curiosity</strong>: the sea is the oldest bathroom not divided by gender in the world. We humans did not invent this particular tertiary category of waste disposal places to remedy the mistakes of some of our ancestors - nature invented them, well before the very first <em>homo sapiens</em> existed!</em> p>