+++
Title = "😭 More than an exam, I went to war."
Dates = 2023-05-02
Lastmod = 2023-05-03
Downsync = "/it/posts/Piu-Che-un-Esame-Ho-Fatto-una-Guerra.html"
Aliases = [
  "/Posts/2023-05-02-Piu-Che-un-Esame-Ho-Fatto-una-Guerra.html",
]
Description = "Because of people who don't know how to read the rules, demons came to me while I was taking an exam that was supposed to be very easy."
+++

{{< noticeAutomaticTranslation it >}}



<!-- Autogenerated by ListedDownsync.js. Do not edit (unless also set "% Downsync = False") - it would be overwritten. -->

<p>As <strong>the title</strong> suggests, this was the <strong>poetic thought</strong> dispensed by my mother today, after I returned home in the afternoon with a <strong>psyche</strong> > completely <strong>obliterated</strong>, unrecognizable.</p>

<p>Until 30 minutes before, <em>good Maremma</em>, <strong>I just wanted</strong> to <strong>explode</strong>. Be careful, though: not for the exam itself (the last in a series of extra-curricular ones, precisely), very simple for me, which I don't care about except the certification!<sup id="fnref1">< a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn1">1</a></sup> Something else happened</strong>.</p>

<h2>Let's go back</h2>

<p>When I went through the first sessions <strong>two years ago</strong>, everything went <strong>very smoothly</strong>, almost in the name of <em><a href="https://www.urbandictionary .com/define.php?term=chill%20vibes" rel="noopener nofollow" target="_blank">chilling</a></em>: those were still the times of anti-COVID restrictions, and those 2 exams that I faced at school they were in a <strong>classroom</strong> which was however <strong>not very crowded</strong>.</p>

<p><strong>This year</strong>, however, <strong>crap</strong>. I took the card without repeating anything, so my parents didn't waste money on that matter, but the <strong>experience</strong> was <strong>terrifying</strong>.<br>
The <strong>class</strong> at these rounds was always <strong>packed</strong>, and this very thing ended up being a <strong>problem for my soul</strong>.<br>
I don't think I deserve all this...</p>

<h3>Sounds of trouble</h3>

<p><strong>Last month</strong> I took 2 tests out of the 3 I was missing, and already <strong>nothing went</strong> smoothly at all:</p>

<ol>
<li><p>My professor (project contact) hadn't told me that I should have received a private link in the email address of the school domain to create an account on the online exam platform... Too bad that access I only have it at the post office on <a href="https://sitoctt.octt.eu.org/Posts/Archive/2022-05-07-Gli-Inspettiti-Vantaggi-della-Chiavetta-Linux.html" rel=" noopener nofollow" target="_blank">Puppy Linux thumb drive</a> and on the tablet, and I can't access anywhere else<sup id="fnref2"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn2" >2</a></sup>. Result: <strong>I had to rush</strong> home <strong>to get the tablet</strong> and go back to school... Luckily I live nearby.</p></li>
<li><p>The <strong>testing platform totally broke</strong> when I finished one of the exams (not without difficulty, some questions were <em>[glitchate](<a href="https:// en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glitch#Computer" rel="noopener nofollow" target="_blank">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glitch#Computer</a></em>glitch)_ !): as soon as I started the second one, the system said that I had run out of time, and closed the test I had just started in my face... The prof. he had to <strong>waste time</strong> calling support to explain the matter, and after quite a mess the exam was reset as not taken.</p></li>
</ol>

<p>Between both things, then, a good amount of <strong>time</strong> was lost. And if it hadn't been like this, <strong>maybe</strong> I would have managed to finish <strong>all the exams that day</strong>.</p>

<h2>The present</h2>

<p>Let's go back to today.<br>
Once the hassle of waiting was over (not too problematic, thanks to the rectangle of plastic, glass, metal, with Internet connection, and pocket book, which I also always carry around), due to the fact that all the stations were occupied initially, <strong >start</strong>.<br>
<em>...But I had never done it!</em></p>

<p>My <strong>first few minutes</strong> go <strong>fine</strong>, <strong>until</strong> even a good selection (random, or did destiny choose them carefully?) of <strong>monkeys</strong>, who from the rows behind everything were babbling with those who (I imagine in confidence) had not yet finished, at an exaggerated volume and in contemporary.<br>
Here, now, slowly, the <strong>blood</strong> starts to boil <strong>in my body, as if it were a coffee pot, because with that mess <strong>I can't read</strong> > half of a question <strong>without getting</strong> totally distracted. Even having earphones in my ears (but detached) didn't attenuate the noise enough. <strong>Finish the exam like that</strong>? <strong>Impossible</strong>.</p>

<h3>I tried</h3>

<p>Before it was too late, <strong>I tried</strong> to <strong>call the teacher</strong> — who, damn the <em>extreme</em>, was quite <strong>distracted </strong>, because another person at that moment had the same glitch as my previous time (and here I have to: what a shitty backend this platform has, throw it away and rewrite it from scratch, please!! !).<br>
I wanted to <strong>kindly</strong> tell him to keep all those who had no right to speak in silence, and after a few minutes (to his credit, of his own accord, a moment before he heard me ) blathered something (unconvincing) to tell the audience to calm down. The audience <strong>did not calm down</strong>, and the prof. he was going crazy due to the general problems, unfortunately, so <strong>he could pay little attention</strong> to me.</p>

<p>The <strong>last time</strong> there was <strong>less mess</strong>. Perhaps because there were fewer wrong individuals, perhaps because I was at the PC in the far corner of the room (which today was not turned on), perhaps because, given that there was an external commissioner, the rules could only be violated without making any noise. I don't know.</p>

<p>I even decide to <strong>call my father</strong> on the phone, upon arriving here, to tell him to <strong>call</strong> the professor on the phone; maybe this time around <strong>he can understand</strong>. In fact, this time the call for silence was more convincing. Was it?</p>

<h3>A disaster</h3>

<p>But, by now, <strong>too late</strong> anyway: my tension has risen too much, <strong>I can't regain</strong> a minimum of <strong>concentration</strong>, forcing myself, after perhaps a good 21 months in which I was able to do without it, scratching myself to convert a minimal part of the mental load (which requires major mental energies to be managed, the same ones that I needed at that moment to complete my session) into skin burning (which, to a certain level, is managed by the brain in the background). What a drag.</p>

<p>I've already done the <strong>damage</strong>, <em>alas and what the fuck</em>, and it seemed that everything was slowly calming down and concentration could return... but instead No. The <strong>call</strong> of the prof. However, it was <strong>too soft</strong> and <strong>did not stop the bad behavior of that part of the other students, it just put them on hold a bit.</p>

<h3>The real solution</h3>

<p><strong>Well</strong>, at this point I simply feel like <strong>throwing a fist</strong> on the desk and "screaming" (not that I know how to do it, but the fist just makes up for the this is useful; <em>I unconsciously learned from another professor of mine</em>) to <strong>be silent</strong>, otherwise I wouldn't have been able to accomplish anything, and... <strong>it worked< /strong>. <em>Oh?...</em><br>
Yes, <strong>that's all</strong>. I can't say anything else about this moment, it immediately crystallized into goodness. From there, until I finished and was able to leave, not a fly flew again.</p>

<p>At that point, unfortunately, I had <strong>accumulated</strong> the <strong>irritation</strong> anyway, and it took me <em>hours and hours and <strong>hours</strong> ></em> <strong>to dispose of it</strong>, between doing various random things and writing this article.<br>
The only thing I can logically <strong>regret</strong> is not having made that bench resonate a few precious minutes before</strong> seriously reaching the limit, given that gentle methods didn't work. Unfortunately or fortunately, damn, it's not <strong>a reflex that arises in me</strong> too often; <strong>only when</strong> I am already <strong>over</strong> that limit, and perhaps I have <strong>already committed other avoidable</strong> damage.</p>

<hr>

<p>And yet, that doubt still remains: but <strong>what have I done</strong> that was so bad in the world <strong>to deserve</strong> these things? And let's understand...</p>



<h2>[:HNotesRefsHTML:]</h2>

<div class="footnotes">
<ol>

<li id="fn1">
<p>The <strong>certification</strong>... oh God, even this last one, <strong>not that I care</strong> personally: on my <strong>deathbed I don't</strong> strong> I will certainly be <strong>counting the cards</strong> that I could have but didn't want to get; mainly my parents convinced me, so whatever. (<em>If <strong>even this were to expire</strong> before it can be seriously useful for anything, <strong>I'll be seriously pissed off</strong>, but never mind...</em>) < a href="#fnref1">↩</a></p>
</li>

<li id="fn2">
<p><strong>It's Google's fault</strong> (GSuite, shit), the <strong>school network</strong> is not recognized as trustworthy and <strong>doesn't let me log in</strong>. That day I couldn't even log in from my smartphone by connecting to my home VPN, for some reason! <strong>I explained the general problem better</strong> in my <strong>article on the Puppy flash drive</strong>, however, so I'll refer you there for those who are interested. <a href="#fnref2">↩</a></p>
</li>

</ol>
</div>